README.md, before:

# OPAL Frontend Common UI Library

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@hmcts/opal-frontend-common)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@hmcts/opal-frontend-common)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@hmcts/opal-frontend-common)](https://github.com/hmcts/opal-frontend-common-ui-lib/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=hmcts_opal-frontend-common-ui-lib&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=hmcts_opal-frontend-common-ui-lib)
[![Coverage](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=hmcts_opal-frontend-common-ui-lib&metric=coverage)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=hmcts_opal-frontend-common-ui-lib)

This is an [Angular Library](https://angular.dev/tools/libraries).

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Development server](#development-server)
- [Build](#build)
- [Switching Between Local and Published Versions](#switching-between-local-and-published-versions)
- [Running unit tests](#running-unit-tests)
- [Angular code scaffolding](#angular-code-scaffolding)
- [Commonly Used Commands](#commonly-used-commands)
- [Using This Library](#using-this-library-in-an-angular-application-eg-opal-frontend)
- [Publishing the Library](#publishing-the-library)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Running the application requires the following tools to be installed in your environment:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) v23.7.0 or later

- [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) v4

### Install Dependencies

Install dependencies by executing the following command:

```bash

yarn

```

## Build

Run `yarn ng build` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory.

## Switching Between Local and Published Versions

See [opal-frontend](https://github.com/hmcts/opal-frontend) for how this library is consumed in practice.

Use the `yarn import:local:common-ui-lib` and `yarn import:published:common-ui-lib` scripts in your consuming project (`opal-frontend`) to switch between local development and the published npm version of the library.

To use a published version of this library during development in another project:

1. In the consuming project, run:
   ```bash
   yarn import:published:common-ui-lib
   ```

To use a local version of this library during development in another project:

1. Build this library:

   ```bash
   yarn build
   ```

2. In your consuming project (e.g. `opal-frontend`), ensure you have set an environment variable pointing to the local build:

   ```bash
   # In your shell config file (.zshrc, .bash_profile, or .bashrc)
   export COMMON_UI_LIB_PATH="[INSERT PATH TO COMMON UI LIB FOLDER]"
   ```

3. In the consuming project (e.g. `opal-frontend`), run:

   ```bash
   yarn import:local:common-ui-lib
   ```

   This will remove the published version and install the local build using the path provided.

4. To switch back to the published version:
   ```bash
   yarn import:published:common-ui-lib
   ```

This setup makes it easy to switch between development and production versions of the shared library.

## Publishing the Library

Once any changes have been approved and merged into the main branch, you'll need to publish a new version of the library so that it can be consumed by other projects. To do this:

1. Increment the version number in both the library's root `package.json` and in `/projects/opal-frontend-common/package.json`.
2. Commit and push those changes to the main branch.
3. On GitHub, create a new [release](https://github.com/hmcts/opal-frontend-common-ui-lib/releases) and use the updated version number as a tag.
4. When the release workflow completes, the library will be published.

After this new version of the library is published, any consuming application should remove the local or outdated version of the library and then install the published version by running:

    ```bash
    yarn import:published:common-ui-lib
    ```

## Running unit tests

Run `yarn test` to execute the unit tests via [karma](https://karma-runner.github.io/latest/index.html).

To check code coverage, run `yarn test:coverage` to execute the unit tests via [karma](https://karma-runner.github.io/latest/index.html) but with code coverage.
The coverage report will be available in the coverage/ directory (e.g. coverage/index.html).

## Angular code scaffolding

### Component Prefixing

This library uses the prefix `opal-lib` for all of its shared components, as specified in the `angular.json` file. When generating new components, make sure they are prefixed accordingly. This ensures consistent naming and avoids naming collisions across applications.

Run `yarn ng generate component component-name` to generate a new component. You can also use `yarn ng generate directive|pipe|service|class|guard|interface|enum|module`.

Note the requirement for prefixing the `ng` commands with `yarn`

### Multiple Entry Points

This library uses multiple entry points, which allows you to organize and expose different parts of the library in separate modules. Each entry point requires:

- An `ng-package.json` to define how the entry point should be packaged.
- A `package.json` to specify the entry point's metadata and dependencies.
- A `public-api.ts` to declare and export the resources for that entry point.

Alias paths need to be set in both the `/projects/opal-frontend-common/package.json` and the library's `tsconfig.json`. These aliases help the consuming application import from each entry point using the correct path. By properly defining these aliases, developers can import modules from your library entry points without resorting to complex relative paths.

#### Example Usage of Entry Points

To import a module from a specific entry point in your application:

```ts
// Example: Importing various items from the library
import { GovukTextInputComponent } from '@hmcts/opal-frontend-common/components/govuk/govuk-text-input';
import { DateService } from '@hmcts/opal-frontend-common/services/date-service';
import { dateOfBirthValidator } from '@hmcts/opal-frontend-common/validators/date-of-birth';
import { hasFlowStateGuard } from '@hmcts/opal-frontend-common/guards/has-flow-state';
import { TitleResolver } from '@hmcts/opal-frontend-common/resolvers/title';
import { GlobalStore } from '@hmcts/opal-frontend-common/stores/global';
```

## Commonly Used Commands

The following commands are available in the `package.json`:

- `yarn build`  
  Builds the Angular library and outputs to the `dist/` folder.

- `yarn test`  
  Executes unit tests via [karma](https://karma-runner.github.io/latest/index.html).

- `yarn test:coverage`  
  Runs unit tests with code coverage reporting enabled. The coverage report can be found in the `coverage/` directory.

- `yarn lint`  
  Runs linting using ESLint.

  There is a custom lint rule for member ordering to ensure members in the code are ordered in the following format:

```json
[
  "private-static-field",
  "protected-static-field",
  "public-static-field",
  "private-instance-field",
  "protected-instance-field",
  "public-instance-field",
  "constructor",
  "private-static-method",
  "protected-static-method",
  "public-static-method",
  "private-instance-method",
  "protected-instance-method",
  "public-instance-method"
]
```

- `yarn prettier`  
  Checks that all files conform to the Prettier formatting rules.

- `yarn prettier:fix`  
  Automatically formats files using Prettier.

## Angular code LLM prompts

https://angular.dev/ai/develop-with-ai

Paste the following prompt into your AI assistant of choice.

```markdown
You are an expert in TypeScript, Angular, and scalable web application development. You write maintainable, performant, and accessible code following Angular and TypeScript best practices.

## TypeScript Best Practices

- Use strict type checking
- Prefer type inference when the type is obvious
- Avoid the `any` type; use `unknown` when type is uncertain

## Angular Best Practices

- Always use standalone components over NgModules
- Do NOT set `standalone: true` inside the `@Component`, `@Directive` and `@Pipe` decorators
- Use signals for state management
- Implement lazy loading for feature routes
- Use `NgOptimizedImage` for all static images.
- Do NOT use the `@HostBinding` and `@HostListener` decorators. Put host bindings inside the `host` object of the `@Component` or `@Directive` decorator instead

## Components

- Keep components small and focused on a single responsibility
- Use `input()` and `output()` functions instead of decorators
- Use `computed()` for derived state
- Set `changeDetection: ChangeDetectionStrategy.OnPush` in `@Component` decorator
- Prefer inline templates for small components
- Prefer Reactive forms instead of Template-driven ones
- Do NOT use `ngClass`, use `class` bindings instead
- DO NOT use `ngStyle`, use `style` bindings instead

## State Management

- Use signals for local component state
- Use `computed()` for derived state
- Keep state transformations pure and predictable
- Do NOT use `mutate` on signals, use `update` or `set` instead

## Templates

- Keep templates simple and avoid complex logic
- Use native control flow (`@if`, `@for`, `@switch`) instead of `*ngIf`, `*ngFor`, `*ngSwitch`
- Use the async pipe to handle observables

## Services

- Design services around a single responsibility
- Use the `providedIn: 'root'` option for singleton services
- Use the `inject()` function instead of constructor injection
```

## 💡 Copilot Prompt Examples for Angular MCP

### 📘 1. Ask for Documentation Help

**Prompt:**

> “How do Angular signals work?”

**What Copilot does:**  
Calls `search_documentation("signals")` and returns official Angular documentation context.

---

### 🧱 2. Generate Code

**Prompt:**

> “Generate a service for user authentication”

**What Copilot does:**  
Runs `ng generate service user-auth` through the MCP server — adds the file in the correct directory.

---

### 📚 3. Get Project File Structure

**Prompt:**

> “List all Angular modules in this project”

**What Copilot does:**  
Uses `list_projects` and `get_file_tree` to find and display modules across the workspace.

---

### 🧭 4. Navigate Routing Setup

**Prompt:**

> “What routes are defined in this app?”

**What Copilot does:**  
Parses routing modules and shows route paths, guards, and lazy-loaded modules.

---

### 🧹 5. Refactor with AI Help

**Prompt:**

> “Convert this component to use the standalone API”

**What Copilot does:**  
Updates component metadata with `standalone: true`, refactors imports, and removes old NgModule references.

---

### 🛠️ 6. Add Angular Libraries

**Prompt:**

> “Add Angular Material”

**What Copilot does:**  
Triggers `ng add @angular/material` to install the package and configure animations + theming.

Commit message:

feat: add abstract sortable table interfaces and transformation constants
- Created `IAbstractSortState` and `IAbstractTableData` interfaces for sortable table functionality.
- Added `TRANSFORM_ITEM_DEFAULTS` constant for default transformation item configurations.
- Implemented unit tests for `runHasFlowStateGuardWithContext` to validate boolean, Promise, and Observable results.
- Set up Vitest configuration with global settings and coverage reporting.
- Added test setup file for zone.js integration.

README.md, after:

# OPAL Frontend Common UI Library

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@hmcts/opal-frontend-common)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@hmcts/opal-frontend-common)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@hmcts/opal-frontend-common)](https://github.com/hmcts/opal-frontend-common-ui-lib/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=hmcts_opal-frontend-common-ui-lib&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=hmcts_opal-frontend-common-ui-lib)
[![Coverage](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=hmcts_opal-frontend-common-ui-lib&metric=coverage)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=hmcts_opal-frontend-common-ui-lib)

This is an [Angular Library](https://angular.dev/tools/libraries).

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Development server](#development-server)
- [Build](#build)
- [Switching Between Local and Published Versions](#switching-between-local-and-published-versions)
- [Running unit tests](#running-unit-tests)
- [Angular code scaffolding](#angular-code-scaffolding)
- [Commonly Used Commands](#commonly-used-commands)
- [Using This Library](#using-this-library-in-an-angular-application-eg-opal-frontend)
- [Publishing the Library](#publishing-the-library)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Running the application requires the following tools to be installed in your environment:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) v23.7.0 or later

- [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) v4

### Install Dependencies

Install dependencies by executing the following command:

```bash

yarn

```

## Build

Run `yarn ng build` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory.

## Switching Between Local and Published Versions

See [opal-frontend](https://github.com/hmcts/opal-frontend) for how this library is consumed in practice.

Use the `yarn import:local:common-ui-lib` and `yarn import:published:common-ui-lib` scripts in your consuming project (`opal-frontend`) to switch between local development and the published npm version of the library.

To use a published version of this library during development in another project:

1. In the consuming project, run:
   ```bash
   yarn import:published:common-ui-lib
   ```

To use a local version of this library during development in another project:

1. Build this library:

   ```bash
   yarn build
   ```

2. In your consuming project (e.g. `opal-frontend`), ensure you have set an environment variable pointing to the local build:

   ```bash
   # In your shell config file (.zshrc, .bash_profile, or .bashrc)
   export COMMON_UI_LIB_PATH="[INSERT PATH TO COMMON UI LIB FOLDER]"
   ```

3. In the consuming project (e.g. `opal-frontend`), run:

   ```bash
   yarn import:local:common-ui-lib
   ```

   This will remove the published version and install the local build using the path provided.

4. To switch back to the published version:
   ```bash
   yarn import:published:common-ui-lib
   ```

This setup makes it easy to switch between development and production versions of the shared library.

## Publishing the Library

Once any changes have been approved and merged into the main branch, you'll need to publish a new version of the library so that it can be consumed by other projects. To do this:

1. Increment the version number in both the library's root `package.json` and in `/projects/opal-frontend-common/package.json`.
2. Commit and push those changes to the main branch.
3. On GitHub, create a new [release](https://github.com/hmcts/opal-frontend-common-ui-lib/releases) and use the updated version number as a tag.
4. When the release workflow completes, the library will be published.

After this new version of the library is published, any consuming application should remove the local or outdated version of the library and then install the published version by running:

    ```bash
    yarn import:published:common-ui-lib
    ```

## Running unit tests

Run `yarn test` to execute the unit tests via Vitest (Angular 21 unit-test builder).

To check code coverage, run `yarn test:coverage` to execute the unit tests via Vitest with coverage enabled.
The coverage report will be available in the coverage/ directory (e.g. coverage/index.html).

## Angular code scaffolding

### Component Prefixing

This library uses the prefix `opal-lib` for all of its shared components, as specified in the `angular.json` file. When generating new components, make sure they are prefixed accordingly. This ensures consistent naming and avoids naming collisions across applications.

Run `yarn ng generate component component-name` to generate a new component. You can also use `yarn ng generate directive|pipe|service|class|guard|interface|enum|module`.

Note the requirement for prefixing the `ng` commands with `yarn`

### Multiple Entry Points

This library uses multiple entry points, which allows you to organize and expose different parts of the library in separate modules. Each entry point requires:

- An `ng-package.json` to define how the entry point should be packaged.
- A `package.json` to specify the entry point's metadata and dependencies.
- A `public-api.ts` to declare and export the resources for that entry point.

Alias paths need to be set in both the `/projects/opal-frontend-common/package.json` and the library's `tsconfig.json`. These aliases help the consuming application import from each entry point using the correct path. By properly defining these aliases, developers can import modules from your library entry points without resorting to complex relative paths.

#### Example Usage of Entry Points

To import a module from a specific entry point in your application:

```ts
// Example: Importing various items from the library
import { GovukTextInputComponent } from '@hmcts/opal-frontend-common/components/govuk/govuk-text-input';
import { DateService } from '@hmcts/opal-frontend-common/services/date-service';
import { dateOfBirthValidator } from '@hmcts/opal-frontend-common/validators/date-of-birth';
import { hasFlowStateGuard } from '@hmcts/opal-frontend-common/guards/has-flow-state';
import { TitleResolver } from '@hmcts/opal-frontend-common/resolvers/title';
import { GlobalStore } from '@hmcts/opal-frontend-common/stores/global';
```

## Commonly Used Commands

The following commands are available in the `package.json`:

- `yarn build`  
  Builds the Angular library and outputs to the `dist/` folder.

- `yarn test`  
  Executes unit tests via Vitest.

- `yarn test:coverage`  
  Runs unit tests with code coverage reporting enabled. The coverage report can be found in the `coverage/` directory.

- `yarn lint`  
  Runs linting using ESLint.

  There is a custom lint rule for member ordering to ensure members in the code are ordered in the following format:

```json
[
  "private-static-field",
  "protected-static-field",
  "public-static-field",
  "private-instance-field",
  "protected-instance-field",
  "public-instance-field",
  "constructor",
  "private-static-method",
  "protected-static-method",
  "public-static-method",
  "private-instance-method",
  "protected-instance-method",
  "public-instance-method"
]
```

- `yarn prettier`  
  Checks that all files conform to the Prettier formatting rules.

- `yarn prettier:fix`  
  Automatically formats files using Prettier.

## Angular code LLM prompts

https://angular.dev/ai/develop-with-ai

Paste the following prompt into your AI assistant of choice.

```markdown
You are an expert in TypeScript, Angular, and scalable web application development. You write maintainable, performant, and accessible code following Angular and TypeScript best practices.

## TypeScript Best Practices

- Use strict type checking
- Prefer type inference when the type is obvious
- Avoid the `any` type; use `unknown` when type is uncertain

## Angular Best Practices

- Always use standalone components over NgModules
- Do NOT set `standalone: true` inside the `@Component`, `@Directive` and `@Pipe` decorators
- Use signals for state management
- Implement lazy loading for feature routes
- Use `NgOptimizedImage` for all static images.
- Do NOT use the `@HostBinding` and `@HostListener` decorators. Put host bindings inside the `host` object of the `@Component` or `@Directive` decorator instead

## Components

- Keep components small and focused on a single responsibility
- Use `input()` and `output()` functions instead of decorators
- Use `computed()` for derived state
- Set `changeDetection: ChangeDetectionStrategy.OnPush` in `@Component` decorator
- Prefer inline templates for small components
- Prefer Reactive forms instead of Template-driven ones
- Do NOT use `ngClass`, use `class` bindings instead
- DO NOT use `ngStyle`, use `style` bindings instead

## State Management

- Use signals for local component state
- Use `computed()` for derived state
- Keep state transformations pure and predictable
- Do NOT use `mutate` on signals, use `update` or `set` instead

## Templates

- Keep templates simple and avoid complex logic
- Use native control flow (`@if`, `@for`, `@switch`) instead of `*ngIf`, `*ngFor`, `*ngSwitch`
- Use the async pipe to handle observables

## Services

- Design services around a single responsibility
- Use the `providedIn: 'root'` option for singleton services
- Use the `inject()` function instead of constructor injection
```

## 💡 Copilot Prompt Examples for Angular MCP

### 📘 1. Ask for Documentation Help

**Prompt:**

> “How do Angular signals work?”

**What Copilot does:**  
Calls `search_documentation("signals")` and returns official Angular documentation context.

---

### 🧱 2. Generate Code

**Prompt:**

> “Generate a service for user authentication”

**What Copilot does:**  
Runs `ng generate service user-auth` through the MCP server — adds the file in the correct directory.

---

### 📚 3. Get Project File Structure

**Prompt:**

> “List all Angular modules in this project”

**What Copilot does:**  
Uses `list_projects` and `get_file_tree` to find and display modules across the workspace.

---

### 🧭 4. Navigate Routing Setup

**Prompt:**

> “What routes are defined in this app?”

**What Copilot does:**  
Parses routing modules and shows route paths, guards, and lazy-loaded modules.

---

### 🧹 5. Refactor with AI Help

**Prompt:**

> “Convert this component to use the standalone API”

**What Copilot does:**  
Updates component metadata with `standalone: true`, refactors imports, and removes old NgModule references.

---

### 🛠️ 6. Add Angular Libraries

**Prompt:**

> “Add Angular Material”

**What Copilot does:**  
Triggers `ng add @angular/material` to install the package and configure animations + theming.
