projects/opal-frontend-common/components/custom/custom-summary-metric-bar/custom-summary-metric-bar-item/custom-summary-metric-bar-item-label/readme.md, before:

# Custom Summary Metric Bar Item Label Component

This Angular component provides a Metric Bar Item Label component which will be content projected into the Metric Bar Item component alongside the Metric Bar Item Value to form the complete layout and consistent stylings of each item in the metric bar.

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Inputs](#inputs)
- [Outputs](#outputs)
- [Methods](#methods)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Installation

```typescript
import { CustomSummaryMetricBarItemLabelComponent } from '@hmcts/opal-frontend-common/components/custom/custom-summary-metric-bar/custom-summary-metric-bar-item/custom-summary-metric-bar-item-label';
```

## Usage

You can use the Custom Summary Metric Bar Item Label component in your template as follows:

```html
<div opal-lib-custom-summary-metric-bar-item-label>Metric 1:</div>
```

The component uses defaulted govuk classes to remove margin and set font size and weight using this GDS class 'govuk-!-font-size-19 govuk-!-font-weight-bold govuk-!-margin-0 govuk-body'.

## Inputs

There are no custom inputs for this component.

## Outputs

There are no custom outputs for this component.

## Methods

There are no custom methods for this component.

## Testing

Unit tests for this component can be found in the `custom-summary-metric-bar-item-label.component.spec.ts` file. To run the tests, use:

```bash
yarn test
```

## Contributing

Feel free to submit issues or pull requests to improve this component.

Commit message:

Refactor text colour handling in Custom Summary Metric Bar components to use input property and update README documentation

projects/opal-frontend-common/components/custom/custom-summary-metric-bar/custom-summary-metric-bar-item/custom-summary-metric-bar-item-label/readme.md, after:

# Custom Summary Metric Bar Item Label Component

This Angular component provides a Metric Bar Item Label component which will be content projected into the Metric Bar Item component alongside the Metric Bar Item Value to form the complete layout and consistent stylings of each item in the metric bar.

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Inputs](#inputs)
- [Outputs](#outputs)
- [Methods](#methods)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Installation

```typescript
import { CustomSummaryMetricBarItemLabelComponent } from '@hmcts/opal-frontend-common/components/custom/custom-summary-metric-bar/custom-summary-metric-bar-item/custom-summary-metric-bar-item-label';
```

## Usage

You can use the Custom Summary Metric Bar Item Label component in your template as follows:

By default the text colour is set to use `govuk-dark-grey-text-colour`:

```html
<p opal-lib-custom-summary-metric-bar-item-label>Metric 2:</p>
```

You can change the text colour using the textColour input and provide a valid GDS text colour class found in styles.scss:

```html
<p opal-lib-custom-summary-metric-bar-item-label textColour="govuk-dark-blue-text-colour">Metric 2:</p>
```

The component uses defaulted govuk classes to remove margin and set font size and weight using this GDS class 'govuk-!-font-size-19 govuk-!-font-weight-bold govuk-!-margin-0 govuk-body'.

## Inputs

| Input        | Type     | Default                       | Description                                                                          |
| ------------ | -------- | ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `textColour` | `string` | `govuk-dark-grey-text-colour` | Applies the text colour dependant using GDS text colour classes found in styles.scss |

## Outputs

There are no custom outputs for this component.

## Methods

There are no custom methods for this component.

## Testing

Unit tests for this component can be found in the `custom-summary-metric-bar-item-label.component.spec.ts` file. To run the tests, use:

```bash
yarn test
```

## Contributing

Feel free to submit issues or pull requests to improve this component.
