projects/opal-frontend-common/components/govuk/govuk-summary-card-list/govuk-summary-card-action/readme.md, before:

---

# GOV.UK Summary Card Action Component

This Angular component provides a GOV.UK-styled action button or link inside a summary card, allowing users to take actions such as editing or deleting information.

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Inputs](#inputs)
- [Outputs](#outputs)
- [Methods](#methods)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Installation

```typescript
import { GovukSummaryCardActionComponent } from '@components/govuk/govuk-summary-card-action/govuk-summary-card-action.component';
```

## Usage

You can use the summary card action component in your template as follows:

```html
<opal-lib-govuk-summary-card-action [actionLink]="'/edit-item'" [actionText]="'Edit'"></opal-lib-govuk-summary-card-action>
```

### Example in HTML:

```html
<div class="govuk-summary-card__action">
  <a class="govuk-link" [routerLink]="actionLink">{{ actionText }}</a>
</div>
```

## Inputs

| Input        | Type     | Description                                       |
| ------------ | -------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `actionLink` | `string` | The link URL or route for the action.             |
| `actionText` | `string` | The text displayed for the action button or link. |

## Outputs

There are no custom outputs for this component.

## Methods

There are no custom methods for this component.

## Testing

Unit tests for this component can be found in the `govuk-summary-card-action.component.spec.ts` file. To run the tests, use:

```bash
ng test
```

## Contributing

Feel free to submit issues or pull requests to improve this component.

---

This `README.md` explains how to use the `govuk-summary-card-action` component to add action buttons or links inside GOV.UK-styled summary cards.

Commit message:

Line 11: Links for creditor details have hidden text values that repeat the visual text.

projects/opal-frontend-common/components/govuk/govuk-summary-card-list/govuk-summary-card-action/readme.md, after:

# GOV.UK Summary Card Action Component

This Angular component provides a GOV.UK-styled action button or link inside a summary card, allowing users to take actions such as editing or deleting information.

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Inputs](#inputs)
- [Outputs](#outputs)
- [Methods](#methods)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Installation

```typescript
import { GovukSummaryCardActionComponent } from '@components/govuk/govuk-summary-card-action/govuk-summary-card-action.component';
```

## Usage

You can use the summary card action component in your template as follows:

```html
<opal-lib-govuk-summary-card-action
  [actionLink]="'/edit-item'"
  [actionText]="'Edit'"
></opal-lib-govuk-summary-card-action>
```

### Example in HTML:

```html
<div class="govuk-summary-card__action">
  <a class="govuk-link" [routerLink]="actionLink"
    >{{ actionText }} <span class="govuk-visually-hidden"> {{ visuallyHiddenText }}</span></a
  >
</div>
```

## Inputs

| Input                | Type     | Description                                         |
| -------------------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `actionLink`         | `string` | The link URL or route for the action.               |
| `actionText`         | `string` | The text displayed for the action button or link.   |
| `visuallyHiddenText` | `string` | The text visually hidden for accessibility purposes |

## Outputs

There are no custom outputs for this component.

## Methods

There are no custom methods for this component.

## Testing

Unit tests for this component can be found in the `govuk-summary-card-action.component.spec.ts` file. To run the tests, use:

```bash
ng test
```

## Contributing

Feel free to submit issues or pull requests to improve this component.

---

This `README.md` explains how to use the `govuk-summary-card-action` component to add action buttons or links inside GOV.UK-styled summary cards.
